hi guys I'm Laura Vitale on this episode
of Laura in the kitchen I'm going to
show you the perfect recipe for the most
amazing chicken parmesan you'll ever
have here's what you need just to make
the sauce extra virgin olive oil crush
peeled Italian plum tomatoes white wine
garlic hot pepper flakes kalamata olives
pick pitted if I can get it open here we
go
pitted common olives fresh parsley your
also need fresh basil and of course salt
and pepper now we're going to go to
stove and start making the sauce now I
have a pan preheating in a medium high
heat ground drizzle and two to three
tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil
adding in my garlic that I've sliced
thinly now chicken parm I mean it's it's
a kind of dish that you know you've had
it at least once if you go into an
Italian restaurant it's really it's a
huge to go to Italian meal it really is
that and lasagna but there's I can think
of but to me believe it or not it wasn't
something I grew up eating when I was in
Italy so it wasn't I wasn't sure how to
get it you know adapt to it because I
wasn't my favorites really bland just
sauce and cheese so the way I make it is
with just like lots of flavor in the
sauce a couple different cheeses to just
really bring up the flavor of the
parmesan its all-around amazing just
trust me make this recipe once and
you'll forever be hooked now my garlic
needs to cook for just a couple minutes
just tell us slightly golden and then
we'll add in our hot pepper flakes just
so you know you should always have
before you start cooking anything that
can involve cooking pasta bring a large
pan of um water to a boil so that it's
ready for whenever you ready to put
pasta in because it takes a long time
for the water to come to a boil my
garlic is almost there I'm going to put
it in some hot pepper flakes I'm just
going to go with about quarter teaspoon
but it's all up to you depends how you
like it
how spicy you like it smells so good now
I'm going to put in the white wine oh
you want the wine to reduce you want all
the alcohol to cook out so it's going to
taste about three to four minutes you
want to reduce by half and then we'll
add in the tomatoes my wine is reduced
so now I'm going to add my crushed
peeled Italian tomatoes be careful
because nothing splashes splatters like
tomatoes I'm going to add two cans
because I like a lot of sauce on my
spaghetti and my chicken parm so you can
always store this in the fridge for a
few days
put on some chicken breast toss it with
some pasta a few days later you're good
to go
season it with salt pepper grab it yes I
always felt with the pepper first and I
don't know why here we get some saw nice
just stir this for second lid on medium
heat 20 minutes keep an eye on it but
I'll take about 20 minutes and then you
can continue the process while the sauce
is finishing cooking and the water is
coming up to a bully for the pasta here
are the Romanian greens you're going to
need for the rest of the dish chicken
breast obviously pounded thin just like
that all purpose flour eggs breadcrumbs
granulated garlic provolone cheese
Parmesan cheese mozzarella pepper coarse
salt parsley basil you're going to need
a splash of milk and of course you need
spaghetti now first thing you do before
we touch the chicken because remember if
you touch the chicken I have to go right
and wash your hands so get everything
prepped before you do that we're going
to put in a splash of milk and with the
eggs
just that beat them up just a little not
too much perfect
now I'm going to seize into my break
bottom this is my little secret that I
put in the breadcrumbs I put in
granulated garlic just add more flavor
beautiful and we're going to just salt
and pepper the breadcrumbs a and the
fiber remember you want to make sure you
season every element of your dish so you
get a nice rounded flavor so that every
single layer is flavored the breadcrumb
the chicken everything so just going to
mix this around just a tad I'm gonna put
in a little more garlic in the
breadcrumbs I love it
it's fabulous believe it or not it's
subtle it's not very strong okay so here
we go
mixing this around now I'm using these
pounded-out
chicken breasts like that I buy them
from the store like this but if you
can't find them you can always buy about
five ounce chicken breast and pound them
yourself but every grocery store carries
them so it shouldn't be too difficult
it's perfect for slices amazing past one
then we do eggs and the seasoned
breadcrumbs you want to make sure
everything is nice nicely coated
here we go now I'm going to go wash my
hands and go to the stove and start
cooking up our chicken collards
now I have a large nonstick to a pan for
heating we've got three tablespoons of
olive oil you want a nice and hot that's
exactly what you want to hear it's over
a medium-high heat I'm going to do
batches of two because I don't want to
steam the chicken I want to really get
it nice and crispy so when I do this it
takes about four to five minutes on each
title it's nice golden brown and crispy
and cooked all the way through chicken
breast perfectly done crispy on both
sides turn the pan off now you want to
let you thread for about ten minutes
while we finish our sauce and then we'll
assemble the whole thing my sauce is
cooked now for about 25 minutes now I'm
going to add up some I'm going to add
the chopped up kalamata olives and
chopped up fresh basil and parsley as
you can see this is not going to be just
a regular boring old chicken parms and
full flavor fresh herbs the one really
comes through it's amazing turn this off
because you don't want to really cook
the olives too long otherwise they
become really bitter and too strong but
kind of overpower the dish and you don't
want to do that the start of the dish is
the chicken that's how it's going to
stay turn this off i preheated the oven
to 450 and now we're going to start
layering I'm just putting in a little
bit of sauce not much and I'm going to
use my chicken breast like so just
trying to do as best as possible so you
can see and now I'm just going to ladle
some of the sauce over the chicken just
like so I'm just going to show you how I
do one so that I can finish the rest of
them now what I do is a tape Pro Bowl
and cheese two slices okay
then we top it with some fresh
mozzarella and then we sprinkle Parmesan
Reggiano all over the top
oops like so I'm going to just finish
the rest of them and I'm going to pop
them in the oven till the golden brown
and bubbly on the top here we go chicken
parm out look at that top is nice golden
brown and bubbly I'm serving it with a
nice heaping helpful of spaghetti of
course just like that mmm
cheese is nice and melted it's full of
flavor I wish you could smell this
amazing little sauce right over the top
a little fresh basil always and here you
have it Tommy that doesn't look
absolutely magnificent I hope you
enjoyed spending time with me to get
this recipe and other recipes visit my
website www.marykay.co.uk/awilliam visit